Links:
	Option Pricing using Quantum Computers, 2019 (og paper): https://arxiv.org/pdf/1905.02666
	Quantum Option Pricing via the Karhunen-Loeve Expansion, 2024 (Asian market paper): https://arxiv.org/pdf/2402.10132
	Option Pricing under Stochastic Volatility on a Quantum Computer, 2024 (Variable volatility paper): https://quantum-journal.org/papers/q-2024-10-23-1504/pdf/

Option Pricing:
	Traditionally, European options are priced using the Black-Scholes model, a framework that assumes the underlying stock price follows a Geometric Brownian (random) motion to estimate a fair theoretical option price for a stock. When Black-Scholes is unapplicable, options are priced using Monte-Carlo simulations, where the stock price is simulated with thousands of randomly simulated stock paths, and the option price is subsequently evaluated. This is more versatile for more complex options.

	The paper, Option Pricing using Quantum Computers (https://arxiv.org/pdf/1905.02666, 2019), proposes a theoretical quadratic speedup for option pricing with quantum Monte-Carlo methods. It uses Quantum Amplitude Estimation to estimate the expected payoff of an option by encoding the probability distribution of possible asset price outcomes into a quantum state. This is demonstrated on vanilla options, multi-asset options, and complex options. The main limitation of this is setup, as encoding the whole probability distribution of possible asset price outcomes is difficult.
	  Process is as follows:
	    First, circuit A prepares a quantum state representing the probability distribution over all possible outcomes. For a simple option, this will contain the probability of every possible ending price.    For a path-dependent option, this will contain the probability of every single path, broken down by a certain time-step. An additional ancilla qubit, b, is initialized to |0⟩. The algorithm contains a circuit, Uf, that checks if the path ever crosses the barrier, and if so, sets b = |1⟩. Then, the paper calculates the payoff using: payoff=(1−b) max (ST−K, 0), where K is the option’s strike price. From there, for each possible path another ancilla qubit is rotated based on the ratio between the current path’s payoff and the max payoff. Once this is all done, the probability of the ancilla qubit = |1⟩ equals the estimated payoff divided by the maximum payoff. Quantum Amplitude Estimation then estimates this probability.
	
	This paper, Quantum Option Pricing via the Karhunen-Loeve expansion (https://arxiv.org/pdf/2402.10132, 2024), attempts to address that limitation. Using the KL expansion, which represents a random process using a weighted sum of orthogonal functions, to compress the high-dimensional Brownian price paths. Specifically, they priced complex Asian options by creating a ‘semi-digital state’ using the KL expansion to compress the underlying random stock price paths (reducing the total dimensionality that must be encoded), and then uses Quantum Amplitude Estimation-based Monte-Carlo to price the option (similar to other papers)
	  Specifically using KL expansion to price barrier options with quantum algorithms and comparing speedup with classical is unexplored??
	    “We have shown how our quantum algorithm can price discretely monitored Asian options. The approach can be extended to pricing of exotic, path dependent options such as Barrier Options. However, while it is easy to come up with quantum algorithms for these more exotic options using semi-digital encodings, more detailed analysis is required to compare with classical algorithms and to determine the extent of the quantum speedup.”
	
	Another area to consider is realism, which is tackled in the paper Option Pricing under Stochastic Volatility on a Quantum Computer (https://quantum-journal.org/papers/q-2024-10-23-1504/pdf/, 2024). Previous work uses the Black-Scholes model, which is effective, but unrealistic, as it operates under the assumption that the volatility of any stock remains constant over time, which is not how real markets operate. This paper uses the Heston model, a more complex model that allows volatility to change over time. They create a quantum implementation of the Heston model and then encode the probability distribution of possible outcomes (similar to the 2019 paper, but with an extra dimension for volatility). The rest of the process is very similar.
